# PY City Schools Analysis

Challenge 4 - Pandas

## District Summary

Our 15 schools have a total budget of about $25 million. Our schools have used this money well, considering of the 39,170 scholars, nearly 75% are passing math (average score of 79) and over 85% are passing reading (average score of 82). Additionally, 65% of scholars passed both math and reading, which is extremely good compared to the other districts in our state.

## School Summary

There is a significant gap in performance between district and charter schools. On average, the overall percentage passing (percentage of scholars passing both math and reading) is 90% for charter schools compared to 54% for district schools. This indicates charter schools have an overall passing percentage that is 167% the passing percentage of district schools. The district should look into how to utilize what charter schools are doing in order to improve performance in district schools.

Scholars at smaller schools perform significantly better. When looking at the overall percentage passing of schools based on size, schools with fewer than 2,000 students had an overall percentage passing of 90% compared to 58% for schools with more than 2,000 students. The district should look at what can be done to limit enrollment at individual schools which should increase scholar performance.

The data showed something unexpected when looking at overall percentage passing based on spending ranges. The more money spent per scholar, the lower the overall percentage passing. As you can see in the image below, as the spending ranges increase (more money spent per scholar), the overall percentage passing goes down. This applies to all the data ranges starting with 90% for the lowest spending range down to 54% for the highest spending range. The district should look at what the additional funding is being used for in the higher spending ranges and see if that money can be better used, perhaps to open more schools and lower the number of scholars enrolled at each school. This will likely improve scholar performance based on the data provided. 


### Sources
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

